Minutes 2021-05-19 (#214)
solid/authorization-panel: meetings/2021-05-19.md

Henry: If you have linked documents to look through, you can get really long times for resolution.

Justin: I feel like on the other side, a server really can stop as soon as it knows something is not allowed. So the reciprocal stands. It doesn't seem that there is a lot of optimisation or concern on optimisation from the client. We wanna do better than a firewall that just blanks people out. If part of the requirement is that from scratch the client needs to understand everything it can do it's a different kind of system.

Henry: One could have both by having the access control resource specified. I'm ACP or WAC type access resource (I'm regular or geometric logic). And if you state your type of access control, then you have the convenience of knowing upfront the logic order which might be important to notify the user agent about.

Matthieu: It's just a convenient way of expressing certain conditions to add negation and intersection. Say you have access all the time except sunday the 27th from 4-6pm.

Henry: How do we make clear to a client or server guard that they don't have to go through everything?

> Justin: We have a use case which essentially gives a useful negation use case (Felicia part of a research group has access to all the resources of the research group but one particular resource she can't because there is a conflict). The thing is if you said group X minus 1 you have to maintain a new group. Now you have two groups to maintain to deal with only one condition. So if you think about other scenarios like this, that can ducktail pretty quickly into many sets being maintained and someone leaves an organisation but you missed a group where they were... This group has access to all RND resources but a couple of people can't and from a manageability point of view, it becomes just more practical. That is where the value of negation really comes through.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Justin: We have a use case which essentially gives a useful negation use case (Felicia is part of a research group and has access to all the resources of the research group, but one particular resource she can't access because there is a conflict). The thing is if you said group X-minus-1, you have to maintain a new group. Now you have two groups to maintain to deal with only one condition. So if you think about other scenarios like this, that can dovetail pretty quickly into many sets being maintained and someone leaves an organisation but you missed a group where they were a member... This group has access to all RND resources but a couple of people can't and from a manageability point of view, it becomes just more impractical. That is where the value of negation really comes through.
```

A shape path in its simplest form can say that node X to Y via Z. You can make in one shape path any level beyond that. You can imagine a system of indexes based on shape path if you had a reasoning that cared about those. You need to be able to do a single lookup.

The shape path gives you a machine readable way to define the construction of an index. If I have diagnosis, you get access to conditions How is the acl system know they have access to it, the shape path gives you a machines readable way to construct that index.

Property path in bioinformatics, people are encouraged to use generic properties that would show up all over the place. You could generate a property path that reimplemented your shape path, but not necessarily. If I have a observation that is generic and contains codes that have values and references for devices where they came from. We don't want people to have to have to dream up complex property paths (SPARQL) when they can use shapes.

With property path, you can't filter with restrictions (values of objects), you just have predicate chain.

In any validation case, you start with a fixed amount of node shapes and that's how you fix a particular node. 

> Henry: What about starting a discussion on differences between SPARQL property paths, OWL Property paths and ShEx shapes paths?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Henry: What about starting a discussion on differences between SPARQL property paths, OWL Property paths, and ShEx shapes paths?
```
